# Python Playground

This project contains a group of Python examples focusing on the following aspects:

- Data Structure Modeling (oriented to IoT Applications Use Cases)
- JSON Serialization and Deserialization
- UDP demo clients and servers
- TCP demo client and servers

## Json Introduction

JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data-interchange format that is easy for humans to read and write, and easy for machines to parse and generate. 
It is a text format that is completely language-independent, making it ideal for data exchange between different systems.

An example of a JSON Datastructure is:

```json
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "age": 30,
  "city": "New York"
}
```

### Basic components of JSON

Objects:
- Enclosed in curly braces ({}).
- Contain key-value pairs separated by commas.
- Keys are strings (enclosed in double quotes).
- Values can be any valid JSON data type (including objects, arrays, strings, numbers, booleans, or null).

Arrays:
- Enclosed in square brackets ([]).
- Contain ordered lists of values separated by commas.
- Values can be any valid JSON data type.

Data types in JSON:

- Strings: Enclosed in double quotes (").
- Numbers: Can be integers or floating-point numbers.
- Booleans: true or false.
- Null: Represents the absence of a value.

Characteristics of JSON:

- Human-readable: JSON is designed to be easily read and understood by humans.
- Machine-readable: JSON is easily parsed and generated by machines.
- Lightweight: JSON is a relatively small format compared to XML.
- Language-independent: JSON is not tied to any specific programming language.
- Hierarchical: JSON data is organized in a hierarchical structure using objects and arrays.

Example of a basic JSON structure:

```json
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "age": 30,
  "city": "New York",
  "isStudent": false,
  "hobbies": ["reading", "coding", "traveling"]
}
```

### Import Json Package

Python provides built-in support for JSON through the json module. Here's a brief overview of how to use it:

```python
import json
```

### Load JSON data from a file

This will load the JSON data from the data.json file and store it in the data variable as a Python object (e.g., dictionary, list, or a combination of both).

```python
with open('data.json', 'r') as f:
    data = json.load(f)
```

### Dump data to a JSON file

This will write the Python object data as JSON data to the output.json file.

```python
with open('output.json', 'w') as f:
    json.dump(data, f)
```

### Json & Dictionary

From Dictionary to Json String

```python
data = {
    "name": "Alice",
    "age": 30,
    "city": "New York"
}

json_data = json.dumps(data)
print(json_data)
```

The output will be:

```json
{"name": "Alice", "age": 30, "city": "New York"}
```

From Json String to Dictionary

```python
json_string = '{"name": "Bob", "age": 25, "city": "Los Angeles"}'
python_dict = json.loads(json_string)

print(python_dict["name"])   # Output: Bob
print(python_dict["age"])    # Output: 25
print(python_dict["city"])   # Output: Los Angeles
```